Well, I know everyone was excited
to get to the API's and stuff so
I kind of wanna leave a little information
about how you can go further with this.
Cuz I would imagine this is probably
what you want to take advantage of.
As far as like databases go I purposely
didn't want to connect a database and
do stuff like that.
So I think it gets a little
complicated ,but it's not much.
It really depends on the ORM or
the implementation of
the database that you're using.
That's going to determine how
you use it in Express but for
the most part,
if you have an ORM that has models.
Or whatever implementation that you have,
you would just use those same things
exactly what I'm using my database,
some of these will just be async.
And you can these handlers are async
you can base in front of them,
you can await them, and
it works totally fine.
So you can do all the things
in here that are async.
So this is where you would
do your database stuff.
Sometimes you will put
them in middleware to,
you might make your own custom
middleware that checks the database.
If the incoming requests API key
actually exists or if it's valid,
if it's not expired, you make middleware
for that before it even gets here.
So, you can pretty much do a lot of stuff
with Express when it comes to building
API's.
And I mean, just the combinations
have the routes here,
just to give an example of another
one that is probably something
that you would wanna see
is like a dynamic one.
So for instance, if I wanted to be
able to get it to do by a specific ID,
I could do something like this.
I can say app.get/todo/some
parameter here called ID.
And now I can say,
well give me the to do or
todos.find the to do who is to
do.id triple equals rec.params.id.
This is gonna be a string where
I know this is a number, so
I'm gonna convert this.
To a number or
I'll cover this to a number like that.
I think that converts to a number.
We're gonna find out.
So look at the to do and then I'll
just use them like this data todo.
So now this is a dynamic
parameter that can be anything but
it's referred to as the id because
that's what I called it here.
If I called it something else, that's
what it will be called here as well.
So, we call this id and
we'll close this one.
And now if we go back here
we start the server I
got a missing a parentheses or
am I missing?
I don't know why that thing's
freaking out on expected token, okay,
maybe the plus sign doesn't like it.
Let's try this.
Okay, there we go.
So we got that and now I need to post some
to dues right quick so I can get some ids.
Okay, cool, I got an id,
and then now I'm gonna say,
let me do a get to do slash that thing.
You can go away and
this thing freaks out because it says,
I put to do so should be DB,
let's try that again.
Posts, get that Id, try that again.
There we go.
I was able to get that to do back by
the ID with a dinette with a dynamic path.
So you can see it gets really powerful.
It just means that he's one in here.
You can even do regex as in these passes
he wants to Express is ridiculous.
You should check out the documentation
if you want to learn more about it.
So there's no other questions
about Express, we will move on.
Unless there are some questions.
>> What might just use for
the body parser,
well, what's happened if
we didn't include it?
>> Yeah, that's a good question.
So, I'm gonna get rid of this
one body parser json, and
then I'm going to try to post.
I'm gonna try to post and
see what happens.
I think that will give us
the error that I'm looking for.
So I got rid of the body parser and
I'm gonna try to do a post here.
And you can see right now, instead of
it creating a todo that had an id and
a text property, it only created an a todo
with an id like why did it do that?
Well, let's think about it.
Req.body.text is now undefined
,there's nothing there.
So if you add an undefined field to
an object that basically just gets deleted
when you turn it to json, so
this this was basically undefined.
And this was undefined because the body
parser did this, the body parser takes
whatever is posted on the body and
attaches it to an object's called body.
On the request object as an object,
without the body parser,
we wouldn't have this.
And we would have to do the exact
same thing we did here.
We'd have to say request.on data,
build the chunk,
collect the chunk, and then we have it and
that's just really gross.
So we don't wanna do that.
The body parser at least
the body parser.json.that.
URL encoded we're actually not using.
But this does the exact same thing.
But for query strings.
So someone send up a URL with
a query string that had,
I don't know an object on it or a couple
variables that are comma separated.
The URL encoded will parse that and
give us access to it via,
where is it req.query, so
it'd be something called req.query here,
and it will give us access to that.
So that's why we use the body parser.
So, it's a very fundamental
piece of middleware.
In fact, a lot of this stuff used to
be included in Express and then Express
started to like decoupled was like there's
going to be a little more fundamental and
you can add whatever you want.
So, that's how it is.
But there's frameworks that sit on top of
Express, because Express has become so
universal that, pretty much every
framework is built on top of Express now.
So you'll see things like Nest JS,
or I can't think of them,
I don't really use them.
But, most of the Graph QL
stuff like Apollo,
Graph QL Apollo Express a lot of
stuff is built on top of Express.
Because the pattern is so
such fundamental to node these days.
So yeah,
you'll see a lot of stuff like that.
Any questions?
>> This person says in their VS code
it says body parser is deprecated.
>> Body parser is deprecated.
It's hard to say why someone's
VS code would say that I mean,
the best way to confirm that
is to go to body parser NPM.
We could look it up, published two years
ago, it very well may be deprecated.
So we can go look at the GitHub,
I don't see any deprecation notice here
in the Docs or anything like that,
but two years ago, it could have been.
Who knows?
I could look at some issues here.
Yeah, it's hard to say
why that would say that.
But, I mean VS code is VS code.
So, [LAUGH] It's not actually running
your code is still a static analysis.
So, if it works it works, VS code is just
trying to be helpful before you actually
attempt to run the code.
So remember that it's not
actually executing it.
>> Yeah, on stack overflow, just saying
that the body parts are constructor is
now deprecated and you needed to call
your own code and dot json separately.
>> Yeah, yeah.
Yeah, I remember that they did
that a couple of years ago.
It used to be the fact that you
just had to use body parser and
then you would pass in like json, true or
extended, but now they got rid of that.
And you actually just use these
independently from each other.
Good question.
So is rest out and not mandatory.
Well, actually we are doing req dot and
you just aren't explicitly doing it.
Why don't we do something
like raise .json.
That's actually ending it for us.
It's basically saying, hey, I want to
end this response with this request.
That's got to be json, it's the equivalent
of doing something like this,
restaurant JSON is basically
saying like res.end, but
not before you do something like res.,
right head.
You say, writeHead and
then you put what is it
content type, so it's like content type.
Application, json, so
res.json is equivalent of doing that,
passing in a Json string here and
then writing the head.
So who wants to do all that from scratch,
when you get to do res.json?
>> Could you compare Express and Hapi?
>> I can try, and that's only because I've
only used Hapi once in my entire life.
And what I can.
So I'll give you the comparison that
I know I can speak with the most
experience about.
And that would be that the community for
Express is just much bigger.
The support for
I don't know if Hapi is better or
more performant or
overall in general just you should use it.
All I can say is that Express sis has
the most support the most plugins the most
middleware, the most framework
sitting on top of it.
Probably the most active community
of any server framework and node js.
And I can't say that about any
other framework even Hapi,
although Hapi is obviously very well
known and there's a big framework.
It's just not as big as Express.
It's like I guess the difference
between like Vue and
react they're both amazing I love Vue.
But reacts communities is overwhelmingly
huge compared to Vue even though Vues
community is pretty big too.
So, it really just depends.
On what you're looking for, you can't go
wrong with either the support there for
both it's pretty great.
>> Then someone's saying a body parser
is actually built into Express with V5.
And so
you can just do app.useexpress.json.
>> Yeah, I have yet
to use Express version 5.
I haven't even looked at it.
Last time I checked it out
they were still working on it.
So, it sounds like maybe they haven't
figured out I know that the final version
or if you're looking at a beta,
but I have to check that out.
That's pretty cool that they, cuz I
mean I would literally just said, hey,
everyone uses body parts.
I don't know why they
just don't include this.
So, the fact that they did it, it's
pretty impressive, but yeah, I've been.
I'm on the 4.x,
the 4.x train right now.
Rocking that Express 4, so yeah, I would
check that out good to know thanks.
>> I'd recommend that people
check out your API design
in node course if they wanna go further.
>> Yeah, definitely recommend
checking that one out.
It's like up to V3 now, and I go pretty
deep on building API's with Express and
node and
all those using the Express version 4.
It's pretty much the same thing.
So, highly recommend
checking that one out and
if you like graph QL
that's what you're doing.
I also have a back end graph QL course on
Friday masters as well if you wanna check
that out, and that sits on top of Express,
so, it's just express all
the way top to bottom.
There's no way around it.
I promise you,
they're not paying me to say this.
Just like Express is a good tool.
So, yeah.